oh it's so hot you can fry an egg right
on the ground
you're walking along a seemingly
never-ending road
and dream of escaping from the scorching
sun there's not a single car in sight
you've drunk almost all the water you
had with you
at times like this you wish you hadn't
started hitchhiking
ahead you notice an old brick wall left
over from a long demolished building
oh finally a shadow you press against
the wall
and ah what a relief you close your eyes
but strangely the sun's still blazing
even through your eyelids
you examine the wall it's not
transparent
there are no windows you look at the
ground and are surprised to find the
shadow of the wall
has disappeared maybe this wall is an
illusion that you see because of the
heat
you hit it with your fist ow no there's
nothing wrong
the wall is real you walk aside and
notice something stranger still
you can't find the shadow of your own
body
you raise your hands and can't see the
dark track on the ground
you look around and realize the problem
is much more serious
rocks plants road signs bushes
nothing casts a shadow you raise your
hand and shield your eyes from the sun
it still blinds you but you don't feel
the heat
you know for a fact that you're not
transparent but for some reason
all shadows are gone panic spreads
inside your head
because there's no escape from the sun
now fortunately
you notice a car approaching you wave
your hand and the vehicle stops
you don't surprise the driver with your
story about the vanishing shadows
he noticed it as he drove past the city
without any shade
none of the objects in the car are
casting shadows either the driver turns
on the radio
breaking news this has been happening
all over the world
a shadow appears when the light can't
pass through an object
in other words it's the absence of light
the whole planet must be
transparent and insensitive to sunlight
to make all
shadows disappear but the world is fine
nobody and nothing has lost its physical
properties
according to the laws of physics this is
impossible
but it seems we knew nothing about the
laws
you finally reach the city and go out
into the street
people houses cars birds everything
seems
strange without shadows the world has
lost its volume
it seems like you're looking at a flat
picture it's hot outside
and there are almost no people to escape
from the scorching sun
they run into cafes and shops to no
avail
you check into a small hotel and fall
onto the bed
but can't sleep because the room is too
bright
the light passes through the thick
curtains and shines into your face
it seems the sun can pass through walls
you go to the bathroom
it has no windows but you still can't
hide from the light
you want the dark a little break from
the sun you go
out into the street go to a cafe to a
store
anywhere but everything is brightly lit
you get a little scared your eyes are so
tired
and then you realize there's a place
where you can hide
the subway you run there and find that
hundreds of people have been visited by
the same thought
you go underground pressed by the crowd
from all sides
but notice another crowd going in the
opposite direction
they look downtrodden the light is
everywhere
you hear them mumble and disappointment
you don't believe and decide to check
for yourself
no kidding the light is everywhere
underground
the walls the floor and the ceiling all
seem to glow
light penetrates the ground even in the
deepest places
trains no longer need to turn on their
headlights train cars themselves are
glowing
all objects and people the whole planet
is a glow
you go to the store to buy sunglasses
but it doesn't help much
the light still goes right through the
darkened lenses
then you notice something else despite
having spent
all day in the sun your skin hasn't gone
red at all
to test your theory you buy a bottle of
water and put it next to the wall of the
house to the place where the shadow
should fall
after a while you take a sip from the
bottle the water is still
cold this means the light doesn't warm
the places where the shadow should be
it just illuminates the surroundings
also
you notice that it's not hot when you
hide from the sun
you go to the trusty web and indeed
scientists have found
that the particles of light photons have
changed
now they can penetrate objects like
they're not there
but the heat from sunlight doesn't
follow them
as to why this happens no one knows yet
the day is almost over the sun is
rolling below the horizon
but it's light doesn't wane the night
isn't coming
beyond the arctic circle there's an
annual summer without nights
in the summer months the sun shines
almost around the clock
but people living there escape from the
brightness behind
thick curtains now though it's
impossible to get away from the light
you see it even with your eyes shut
fortunately
you can still feel the night chill the
first year without shadows was difficult
people couldn't sleep for days and the
streets were filled with exhausted
half-sleeping zombies work became next
to impossible in such conditions
people would lose concentration the
ability to think clearly
and perform well because of the lack of
sleep
the only lucky ones without sleep
problems were astronauts
the blackness of outer space didn't
disappear
like on earth light still doesn't pass
through the iss
meteorites and other planets
luckily over time people have adapted to
the new circumstances
since the color black absorbs light dark
interiors have become a new trend this
helps reduce the brightness a bit
besides human eyes have adapted to the
new bright world
and people begin to sleep well again
next the world started to discover the
benefits
of perpetual light the depths of the
ocean are now visible to the unaided eye
you can watch the deep sea creatures
going about their business
from the deck of a ship scientists
discover new types of marine life
every day in countries that have snow in
winter city services sprinkle ground
coal everywhere
otherwise the sunlight reflects off the
white snow
creating glare it's never cloudy now
of course clouds are still there in the
sky but they don't stop
the light hurricanes rainstorms
thunderstorms
seem not so bad now there are no dark
places left in the world
horror movies aren't scary anymore no
monster can hide in a dark corner
people who get lost in the woods find
their way out much easier
the first movies made in this new world
looked bad
the absence of shadows reduced the
volume and effect of the image
to fix this movie companies began
spending money on graphics
to create realistic shadows just like in
the video games
no one's afraid to walk through dark
alleys the world has become a safer
place
no artificial lighting is needed so even
the airs become cleaner
but at the same time the magic of the
night
is gone no more parties at nightclubs
no more city lights fireworks have lost
their appeal as well
then scientists created a material that
almost absorbs
light it began to be used in apartments
cinemas and almost all buildings
people have basically solved the problem
of inescapable brightness
huge urban spaces covered with this
material appeared on city streets
in such places people can experience
night simulation
there's one thing that everyone misses
it's the starry night sky
new generations are born who have never
seen shooting stars and constellations
they can't imagine what those are and
are surprised when they see pictures of
space
no simulations can replace the real
night sky
the desire of humankind to see stars
stimulated the development of space
tourism
cosmic voyages have soon become
available to many people
you get into a space capsule and take
off
the ground is speeding away you're a
little nervous you fly through the
clouds
and see the blue turning black you're in
space
your eyes can't get used to the
surrounding blackness for a few minutes
but it's not even the stars and the huge
white ball of the sun that surprise you
you raise your arm above your head and
the light from the sun
is blocked then you move your arm to the
side
and stare in amazement at the black
shape underneath
you're finally seeing a shadow